Release notes - snowflake/release-71.3 (#10661)
apple/foundationdb: documentation/sphinx/source/release-notes/release-notes-7130.rst

.. _release-notes:

#############
Release Notes
#############

71.3.0
======

Features
--------

> - Added MonotonicTime field, based on system clock, to CommitDebug trace events, for accurate timing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added system clock timing to CommitDebug trace events using the MonotonicTime field.
```

> - BlobGranule driven Backup + restore

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- BlobGranule driven backup + restore
```

- Encryption at-Rest, supports per-tenant and/or per-cluster encryption semantics
- External Vault support for per-tenant blob granule storage location
- Improved APIs for creating and managing Blob Granule ranges
- Updated tenants to be ID oriented. Tenants cannot be upgraded from previous releases.

> - Support for adding restored data clusters back to a metacluster and recovering a management cluster from the data clusters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Restored data clusters can rejoin a metacluster. A management cluster can be recovered from the data clusters.
```

> - Add support for locking tenants

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added support for locking tenants.
```

> - Added a new function fdb_database_get_client_status providing a client-side connection status information in json format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added a new function fdb_database_get_client_status providing client-side connection json status information.
```

- Added new database options to define defaults for transaction options report_conflicting_keys and used_during_commit_protection_disable.
- Added a new network option retain_client_library_copies to avoid deleting the temporary library copies after completion of the process. This may be useful in various debugging and profiling scenarios.

> - Added a new network option trace_initialize_on_setup to enable client traces already on fdb_setup_network, so that traces do not get lost on client configuration issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added a new network option trace_initialize_on_setup to enable client traces already on fdb_setup_network, so that traces do not get lost on client configuration issues.
```

> - TraceEvents related to TLS handshake, new connections, and tenant access by authorization token are no longer subject to suppression or throttling, using an internal “AuditedEvent” TraceEvent classification

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- TraceEvents related to TLS handshakes, new connections, and tenant access by authorization token are no longer subject to suppression or throttling, using an internal “AuditedEvent” TraceEvent classification.
```

> - Usage of authorization token is logged as part of AuditedEvent, with 5-second suppression time window for duplicate entries (suppression time window is controlled by AUDIT_TIME_WINDOW flow knob)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Usage of authorization token is logged as part of AuditedEvent, with a 5-second suppression time window for duplicate entries. (suppression time window is controlled by AUDIT_TIME_WINDOW flow knob)
```

> - Client-side arena blocks and packet buffers that held authorization tokens are zeroed out immediately before deallocation to minimize the likelihood of leaked tokens

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Client-side arena blocks and packet buffers that held authorization tokens are zeroed out immediately before deallocation to minimize the likelihood of leaked tokens.
```

> - Authorization token’s “aud” field may have singular string as value, instead of a singleton array (optional JWT standard)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Authorization token’s “aud” field may have singular string as value, instead of a singleton array. (optional JWT standard)
```

> - RPC response to tenant-scoped get-key-location request now returns a key range clamped to the tenant keyspace to prevent leaking key range information of the normal keyspace or the other tenants

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- RPC response to tenant-scoped get-key-location requests now returns a key range clamped to the tenant keyspace to prevent leaking key range information of the normal keyspace to the other tenants.
```

> - Updated tenant authorization to be ID oriented: instead of base64-encoded tenant names, a token’s “tenants” field shall contain one or more base64-encoded 8-byte big-endian tenant ID numbers (which is also a tenant key prefix)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Updated tenant authorization to be ID oriented: instead of base64-encoded tenant names, a token’s “tenants” field shall contain one or more base64-encoded 8-byte big-endian tenant ID numbers. (which is also a tenant key prefix)
```

Performance
-----------

> - Reduced overhead of creating transactions in Java binding by using the default option of used_during_commit_protection_disable, instead of setting it on every transaction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Reduced overhead of creating transactions in the Java bindings by using the default option of used_during_commit_protection_disable, instead of setting it on every transaction.
```

- Remove duplicated transaction timeout management in the multi-version client. This significantly reduces the overall CPU usage related to setting timeouts.

Reliability
-----------

> - Quota driven workload isolation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added quota driven workload isolation.
```

> - Commands for hot range detection and custom sharding + over-replication

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added commands for hot range detection and custom sharding plus over-replication.
```

> - Added a new network option fail_incompatible_client. If the option is set, transactions are failing with fail_incompatible_client in case of an attempt to connect to a cluster without providing a compatible client library

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added a new network option fail_incompatible_client. If the option is set, transactions will fail with fail_incompatible_client in cases where they attempt to connect to a cluster without providing a compatible client library.
```

- Starting with API version 710300, fdb_setup_network will fail if at least one of the external clients fails to initialize, e.g. because it does not support the selected API version. Added a network option ignore_external_client_failures to restore the previous behavior ignoring external client initialization errors.

> - In case the request to determine cluster version fails because of a fatal error, avoid entering the busy loop repeating the request indefinitely

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In cases where the request to determine the cluster version fails because of a fatal error, avoid entering the busy loop repeating the request indefinitely.
```

> - Fixed run loop profiler deadlock in multi-version client, the profiler can be now enabled on the client-side using the network option enable_run_loop_profiling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a run loop profiler deadlock in the multi-version client, the profiler can now be enabled on the client-side using the network option enable_run_loop_profiling.
```
